Now we are going to add player
collisions. So, I'm going to explain
this later, let's just get started. Let
curX = math.round px
divided by tileSize. Let curY
= math.round
py divided by tileSize.
Now underneath where we set floor, we're
going to go 4, let l = 0,
l < 2, l++.
Try if
map curX
-curY - 4 +
l is
greater than or equal to 0, then
floor =
cur y + l
times tile size.
And then break, then catch.
So the try catch is just in
case it's a
false thing. I realized that that was
incorrect, so let's fix that real quick.
And now we have floor collisions like
that. So you see that we don't have
left and right collisions yet, but the
player can stand on other floor levels
now. So here we have the player.
(Let me write that out) So when the
player is moving around, we want to check
for collisions. To the left here, we
want to stop the player right here
because there's a block right there. To
the right, there's nothing right there,
so we can leave it at its default, which
is infinity. Going down,
we want to stop it at the floor. And then
going up, we can leave it at its default
of negative infinity. The way this
is going to work is we're going to go to
the left, and we're going to go there's
what's there, and we're going to find
this block right here.
Now we see this block, so we're going to
set the leftWall
variable to be the
value of where we hit the
block, like that. Then we're
going to do the same for the ceiling, And
we'll leave it as default because we
don't find any blocks. The same for the
right wall. We'll leave it as
default because we don't find any blocks.
Then when we go down, we're
going to find that there's a block
directly below the player. So we set
the floor to be directly below the
player right there.
Now this value of where the floor
is default happens to be
512 and is the default floor
value. So most of the time it won't have
to change. So
now let's get coding that. So let ceiling
equal
negative infinity.
Let left wall equal
negative infinity again and
let right wall equal
negative infinity. Except I made a
mistake here. The right wall should be
infinity. So just keep a
note of that.
Now we're going to add the collision
checking. So if Py is less
than ceiling, Py equals
ceiling, and then Yvel
equals zero.
Now up here, we're going to have our
left-right collisions.
If Px is less than left
wall, then Px equals left
wall. Else
if Px is greater than
right wall, Px
equals right wall.
And then up here, we're going to start
adding more block checks. So for
let L equal 0, L less than
2, L plus plus. Try
if map cur x
negative cur y
minus 4 plus L plus
1 is greater than or
equal to 0.
Then ceiling
equals cur Y
minus
L minus 1 all
times tile X.
And then break.
And let's put in our catch statement like
that. Then for
left wall, it will be
for let L equal 0
L less than 2, L plus
plus.
If map cur x
minus L minus 1
negative curY minus
4 plus 1 is
greater than or equal to 0,
then left wall
equals cur
x minus L times
tile size and then
break.
And let's put in our catch statement.
Alright. Now for right wall it
will be
for let l=0, l less
than 2, l++
try if
map curX
plus L plus
negative curY
minus 4
plus 1 greater than or equal to
right wall equals
curX plus L
times tile size.
And then break. And let's put in our
catch statement. All right, now
when we click run, we'll see it's
completely broken because remember that
mistake I made earlier? Yeah, that's our
issue. And now we have 100%
functioning collisions.
And I actually put in this cloud here uh
behind the scenes. Let me show you
the map I have. So these negative
ones are air blocks.
And all the way on the left is the
bottom of the world. And
everything else are just indexed from the
Explorer tile. So I can put in, let's
say, a zero there.
And you'll
You can see that that is now in the
world. And that's all I have for you
today. Thank you for programming with me
and making this simple, tile-based game.